# How-rich-are-the-rich
We worked on a dataset called “Fortune 1000”. This dataset ranks the top 500 corporations by revenue in the United States. It includes the entire Fortune 1000, as opposed to just the top 500. Extracted from the Fortune website containing U.S company data for the year of 2021. Fortune 1000 dataset consists of 1000 rows and 18 columns.    In this project we chose the “fortune 1000.csv” dataset and consolidated our theoretical knowledge into techniques/skills. We analyzed it based on the practical values learnt during this course. In this project we put theory into practice and analyzed the dataset with the use of the methods provided along this 6-week course. The questions that we would like to tackle while working on this dataset are shown below. The methods used are correlation and regression analysis including multivariate regression, ANOVA hypothesis testing, GLM and Logistic Regression, Spearman Test. We also performed exploratory data analysis to work with clean data generating accurate results.

# Questions:
1.	Is there an existing relationship between Revenue and Profit?  
2.	Does the ranking of the company affect the number of employees?
3.	Which sector generates the most profit? 
4.	How does the Profit affect Market Capital?
5.	Some claim that the number of employees affect the profit generated by the company. Is that correct?
6.	Can a non-profitable company generate a high revenue? 
7.	Does the CEO gender affect company’s profit generation?
8.	Which state has the most profitable companies? And What percentage of companies have women CEOs? 
9.	Which is the most significant variable impacting the profit?
10.	How many companies are newcomers? 
11.	What percentage of companies have CEOs who were also founders? 
12.	What role does profitability play? Is it predicted correctly?
13.	Taking a sample of 2 different sectors in 2 different states, can we say that sector and State affect the profit of the company? Can an interaction be concluded between sector and state?
14: Can we conclude that there is a difference in the average of revenue, profit and market capital? 

# Methods:

By answering these questions, we will be able to generate conclusions about this dataset. A lot of visuals were included. Histograms are used to summarize data whereas they focus on the main points “factsof” numerical data. A histogram shows the number of data points that fall within a specified range of values (called “bins”). We also used scatterplots. Scatterplots are a great way to show if two variables’ pair together. One could either get a positive or a negative correlation from a scatterplot. If a positive relationship is visualized, meaning when one variable increases, the second increases and when one decreases the second decreases. In a negative correlation, when one variable increases, the second decreases and vice versa. Also, the linear regression model was used to answer several questions by looking at the outcome of the model. We were able to determine if the ranking of the company can affect the number of employees, meaning, if the company has a high ranking, does that mean that the number of employees will increase? 
Also, we were able to determine the most significant variable that has an effect on profit. In other words, which variable plays a huge impact on profit? We used linear regression in both cases because one of them was to determine the set of predictors on the outcome and the second case to determine the most significant predictor affecting the response. Moreover, the spearman test was used to determine the degree of association between two variables, hypotheses were stated, and decision was made when studying if the number of employees affect the profit generated by the company. Nevertheless, we used the Generalized Linear Modeling in order to explain the CEO gender in affecting the company’s profit generation since we are studying two variables using the binomial regression one of them is categorical and the second is numerical. Moreover, GLM was also used to determine if profitability prediction were true or false. This is analyzed based on confusion matrixes and ROC plot as well as AUC calculation. 
Additionally, a two-way ANOVA test was conducted to verify the impact of sector and states on profit. We are studying the impact of two categorical variables on a numerical variable; therefore, the ANOVA two-way testing was our best option. The ANOVA one-way test was conducted to determine if there are significant difference between three groups that are profit, revenue and market capital to study the statistical difference among the mean of these three groups in order to generate an answer.
